= bio-isoelectric_point

The isoelectric point (pI), sometimes abbreviated to iep, is the pH at which a particular molecule or surface carries no net electrical charge.

This library is a ruby implementation for calculating the isoelectric point of a protein, based on the bioperl’s approach. It can be installed as a bioruby-plugin.

Support for the following Pka sets is available

    * dta_select
    * emboss
    * rodwell
    * wikipedia
    * sillero

You can also create a custom Pka set as shown in the example

== Installation

 gem install bio-isoelectric_point

== Uninstallation

 gem uninstall bio-isoelectric_point
 
== Usage

	require 'bio-isoelectric_point'

	protein_seq = Bio::Sequence::AA.new("KKGFTCGELA")

 	#what is the protein charge at ph 14?
 	charge = protein_seq.calculate_charge_at(14)     #=>-2.999795857467562

 	#calculate the ph using dtaselect pka set and round off to 3 decimal places
 	isoelectric_point = protein_seq.calculate_iep('dtaselect', 3)   #=>8.219

	 # calculate the iep ph with a custom set
	 custom_pka_set = { "N_TERMINUS" => 8.1,
	            "K" => 10.1,
	            "R" => 12.1,
	            "H" => 6.4,
	            "C_TERMINUS" => 3.15,
	            "D" => 4.34,
	            "E" => 4.33,
	            "C" => 8.33,
	            "Y" => 9.5
	          }
	 iep_ph = protein_seq.calculate_iep(custom_pka_set, 3)   #=> 8.193
	

== Contributing to bio-isoelectric_point
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 George Githinji. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

